I noticed that most Substacks have some kind of introduction as their first post, and well, I missed that opportunity. I went into this guns blazing, my first ever post being about global gentrification. But hey, better late than never! Hi, I’m Fialka! Let me walk you through the tl;dr version of my life and get to know the woman behind the keyboard. Subscribefirst of all, My name is not Fialka but let’s all pretend it is. It’s Czech for violet, as in the wildflower, and it’s cute. I was born in a small town in the post-communist Czech Republic (not Czechoslovakia, if you want to guesstimate my age which I’ll probably tell you later regardless). My parents weren’t too keen on the fallen regime, and as big fans of the elusive West, they embraced the new, shiny thing called market capitalism and managed to do okay for themselves. Especially my dad, who privatized a company and then proceeded to spend his life taking full credit for what in reality was a lucky set of stars aligning.My early upbringing was influenced by the Iron Curtain-induced trauma more than I probably realize. There was only one thing more important than doing well at school, and it was learning English. That’s how I met Lynette from South Africa. She didn’t speak any Czech when I first came to her classroom, and I couldn’t even read or write yet. I cried on my first lesson, but she kept on teaching me for a long time, until we could casually converse about Nelson Mandela’s life together.To my parents, knowing English meant having all the options in the world, including travel—another thing I was encouraged to do because they couldn’t when they were young. But traveling together as a family? Nahhh. My dad preferred to explore faraway lands alone with his friends, while my mom was all too happy to stay home. Still, we did go on a few resort vacations in Egypt, where I first discovered the amazing world underwater. I haven’t stopped dreaming about the ocean ever since. the origin story - i don't support riding camels in 2025My parents might not have shown me much of the world, but they made me sign up for a folklore dance group, and I took my first international trip with it at age 9. As my family became more and more dysfunctional, and our vacations together grew fewer and far between, I was still able to explore Europe with school and dance until I became a teenager. What was supposed to be the peak of my worldliness, though, came at the age of 17, when it was decided that I’d be spending a semester abroad in Canada. smiling because this was my first week in Canada when I still had some optimismCanada. I hated that place with every fibre of my being. Not only was I assigned to a broken host family who sold the very house I was living in before I finally begged the exchange coordinator to transfer me. I also found out that for a teenager, small town life in the Czech Republic is infinitely more eventful than life in Barrie, Ontario. I turned 18 at my second host family’s house, got a sad looking ice cream cake, and didn’t celebrate because the drinking age in Ontario is 19 and I didn’t have any friends there anyway. My parents used my time away as an opportunity to get divorced. My mom always wanted me to become a journalist. My dad could only accept a STEM major. When I graduated from high school, I moved to Prague to study pharmaceutical chemistry because I thought that drugs were cool. During my first year in uni, I had many revelations, but two stood out:Studying chemistry is very hardI was depressed as hellSee, college is free in my country. I could have just changed my major and saved myself the suffering. Can only imagine all the free time I would have had to party! But in my mind, that meant failure, and failure wasn’t an option. I spent four years fighting an uphill battle with my own brainpower and mental health to get a degree I only ever used at a pub quiz. My second year in uni was particularly tough. I met a boy, he died in an accident a couple months later, and with my psyche already fragile to begin with, I almost lost the plot completely. I failed all my classes that year, and to heal my soul, I flew to New Zealand where my younger sister was doing her high school semester abroad. My plan was simple: I get kicked out of uni → I spend a year working in NZ. I stay in uni → I visit my sister, check the country out, and return home before the next semester starts.young fialka on her first solo trip I was a mess most of my time in New Zealand—heavily medicated to turn off my emotions and not yet accustomed to the challenges of solo travel, especially on a student budget. But that trip, mainly my brief detour to Australia (because it was winter in NZ and I wanted to go to the beach), lit something up in me; a long-lost zest for life I haven’t felt in a while. I ended up staying for about two months, even after my sister had already left, before flying to Prague to give higher education another go. On my last day before boarding the flight back home, the anxious thought of returning to the sad, stressful reality of my day-to-day life almost made me throw up in the hostel lobby. From then on, I dedicated all my free time and money to seeing the world. Not necessarily because I’m cool like that. It was the only thing that made me feel alive at the time. 6 months of near nonstop backpacking brought about some of the most formative experiences of my lifeThe following summer, I backpacked through East & Southeast Asia, and when I was rejected from the Erasmus program thanks to my poor grades, I decided to spend an entire semester volunteering in Portugal, only returning home for the exams. And it didn’t end there. I traveled low cost, with a backpack, solo, with friends, with my sister, couchsurfed, volunteered. I’d even make trips to visit men I barely knew strictly for the excuse to see a new country (like, in a friendly or let’s see what happens way, not in a pay me way, ok!?).my state exam and graduation, some of the happiest days of my life because it was finally overWhen I finally received my Bachelor’s degree in pharmaceutical chemistry, I quickly found a job in a completely unrelated field because I urgently needed to start earning, and was quietly content that I got travel out of my system while young. I could now start my professional era as a real grown-up, unbothered by flight deals and hostel etiquette!Except not at all. Like most first real jobs, mine also kind of sucked. Roughly six months in, I found myself in the office researching working holiday visas for Australia. On my first anniversary, with visa already in my pocket, I asked for a raise and got denied. My response to that was to quit. Shortly after, I packed my bags and embarked on the biggest journey of my life.The trip started out great. I stopped by Vietnam to spend the Chinese New Year with my friend and her family, then continued to Sumatra to visit another friend, and then to Bali for a surf camp, slowly making my way down to Australia. The whole thing only had one flaw, which turned out to be quite major. The date was wrong. Some of the first Covid cases were reported in Vietnam when I was there. I thought this photo was a funny idea, completely unaware of what was about to go down.I arrived in Perth, Western Australia, in March 2020. The whole world shut down within my first two weeks down under. During that timeframe, I managed to find a flatshare, but not a job. I also didn’t get the chance to meet many people before the lockdowns hit, which left me with few contacts and virtually no support network. Still, I decided not to take the repatriation flight and ride the pandemic out in the southern hemisphere. No solid plan, just vibes.What does a lonely girl do in a foreign country when she can’t leave her house for three months? She writes, of course. I opened a Medium account soon after starting my trip with the intent to run a travel blog, but the timing was awful. Nobody stuck between their fou